README.md, before:

# PrestaShop Marketplace in your Back Office (MBO)

![PHP tests](https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/ps_mbo/workflows/PHP%20tests/badge.svg)
![Build & Release draft](https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/ps_mbo/workflows/Build%20&%20Release%20draft/badge.svg)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/PrestaShopCorp/ps_mbo)](https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/ps_mbo/LICENSE.md)

## About

The module **ps_mbo** is the PrestaShop modules marketplace within your shop Backoffice.

It is responsible for :

- Displaying the modules catalogue
- Actions on modules : install, uninstall, upgrade, ...
- Linking your backoffice to Addons

## Installation

MBO is integrated by default on PrestaShop Edition versions.

You can install it manually by downloading the latest release on https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/ps_mbo/releases and uploading it through the Module manager page of your Backoffice.

**Note :** An admin user (Prestashop Marketplace) is created when installing the module. This user is mandatory to allow the module to be callable by the external API.  

## Requirements

To be fully functional, MBO requires

- [ps_accounts][ps_accounts]
- **Your server must be callable by external referrers.** This is needed to perform actions on modules in your backoffice (install, upgrade, auto-upgrade, ...)

## Reporting issues

You can report issues in the module's repository. [Click here to report an issue][report-issue].

## Multistore compatibility

This module is compatible with the multistore :heavy_check_mark:

Once installed it's available whatever the shop context

## Tools and helpers

MBO provides some tools for developers to gather informations on modules

- [Update infos][tools-update-infos]

## Translations

See [translations-docs][translations-docs]

## Contributing

MBO is a closed-source software own by the [PrestaShop company][prestashop].

But everyone is welcome and even encouraged to contribute with their own improvements!

PrestaShop company is the only decision maker to integrate or not a contribution.

Just make sure to follow our [contribution guidelines][contribution-guidelines].

To contribute, you'll need to run the project locally :

- Fork this repository
- Create a branch from the version of MBO you want to patch
  - You are a PrestaShop employee : 
    - Install [MBO API and Vue server][mbo-api-and-vue] and follow instructions in the readme 
    - On MBO root folder, copy .env.dist to .env and replace the values to the ones matching your environment
  - You are an external contributor :
    - Get the .env file from the last released module.
- Package and install your module to your PrestaShop local shop
- Make your changes and push to the branch on your fork
- Create a pull request on the module's project (target the patched branch)
- Wait for one of the core developers either to include your change in the codebase, or to comment on possible improvements you should make to your code.

Please respect the [coding standards][coding-standards]

**TIPS** : To ease your development phase, you can modify the module directly on the shop sources and then copy modifications to your fork.


### Running PHPStan locally

In case you have static analysis error returned by PHPStan it may be easier to fix it locally and to be able to check if the PHPStan rules are satisfied.
The module needs the PrestaShop core code as a reference since it uses its classes, so you have two possibilities to run phpstan:
- checkout this module inside your shop's `modules` folder, then phpstan can find the root folder relatively
- specify some shop's path as the root folder so phpstan knows where to look for the core classes using the `_PS_ROOT_DIR_` env variable

```shell
# Module installed in a shop (in modules folder)
$ ./vendor/bin/phpstan analyze -c tests/phpstan/phpstan-9.0.x.neon
# Module in an independent folder
$ _PS_ROOT_DIR_=/path/to/shop ./vendor/bin/phpstan analyze -c tests/phpstan/phpstan-9.0.x.neon
```

## License

This module is released under the [Academic Free License 3.0][AFL-3.0] 

[report-issue]: https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/ps_mbo/issues/new
[prestashop]: https://www.prestashop.com/
[ps_accounts]: https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/ps_accounts
[contribution-guidelines]: https://devdocs.prestashop.com/1.7/contribute/contribution-guidelines/project-modules/
[mbo-api-and-vue]: https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/mbo.prestashop.com
[coding-standards]: https://devdocs.prestashop.com/1.7/development/coding-standards/
[AFL-3.0]: https://opensource.org/licenses/AFL-3.0
[translations-docs]: docs/translations.md
[tools-update-infos]: docs/tools-update-infos.md

Commit message:

:memo: Update readme to add more details on version segmentation
(cherry picked from commit 08c5425f09ce72490fc8ca9061f0cea31b039d25)

README.md, after:

# PrestaShop Marketplace in your Back Office (MBO)

![PHP tests](https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/ps_mbo/workflows/PHP%20tests/badge.svg)
![Build & Release draft](https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/ps_mbo/workflows/Build%20&%20Release%20draft/badge.svg)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/PrestaShopCorp/ps_mbo)](https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/ps_mbo/LICENSE.md)

## About

The module **ps_mbo** is the PrestaShop modules marketplace within your shop Backoffice.

It is responsible for :

- Displaying the module catalogue
- Actions on modules : install, uninstall, upgrade, ...
- Linking your backoffice to purchases made on Addons

## ⚠️ Version Compatibility

**Important**: Make sure to download the module version that matches your PrestaShop version.

| Module Version | Compatible PrestaShop |
|----------------|-----------------------|
| v5.x           | 9.x                   |
| v4.x           | 8.x                   |
| v3.x           | 1.7.7 & 1.7.8         |

> **Technical Note**: This segmentation is necessary due to strong dependencies between the module, PrestaShop core, and Symfony version changes that significantly impact compatibility.

**Download Options**:
- **Addons Marketplace**: The module is also available on the [PrestaShop Addons marketplace](https://addons.prestashop.com/en/marketplace-builder/39574-prestashop-marketplace-in-your-back-office.html). When specifying your shop version during download, the platform will automatically provide the latest compatible version.
- **Manual Verification**: You can also check the `ps_mbo.php` file and verify the `ps_versions_compliancy` array in the version tag to confirm compatibility.

## Installation

You can install it manually by downloading the latest release on https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/ps_mbo/releases and uploading it through the Module manager page of your Backoffice.

**Note :** An admin user (Prestashop Marketplace) is created when installing the module. This user is mandatory to allow the module to be callable by the external API.  

## Requirements

To be fully functional, MBO requires

- [ps_accounts][ps_accounts]
- **Your server must be callable by external referrers.** This is needed to perform actions on modules in your backoffice (install, upgrade, auto-upgrade, ...)

## Reporting issues

You can report issues in the module's repository. [Click here to report an issue][report-issue].

## Multistore compatibility

This module is compatible with the multistore :heavy_check_mark:

Once installed it's available whatever the shop context

## Tools and helpers

MBO provides some tools for developers to gather informations on modules

- [Update infos][tools-update-infos]

## Translations

See [translations-docs][translations-docs]

## Contributing

MBO is a closed-source software own by the [PrestaShop company][prestashop].

But everyone is welcome and even encouraged to contribute with their own improvements!

PrestaShop company is the only decision maker to integrate or not a contribution.

Just make sure to follow our [contribution guidelines][contribution-guidelines].

To contribute, you'll need to run the project locally :

- Fork this repository
- Create a branch from the version of MBO you want to patch
  - You are a PrestaShop employee : 
    - Install [MBO API and Vue server][mbo-api-and-vue] and follow instructions in the readme 
    - On MBO root folder, copy .env.dist to .env and replace the values to the ones matching your environment
  - You are an external contributor :
    - Get the .env file from the last released module.
- Package and install your module to your PrestaShop local shop
- Make your changes and push to the branch on your fork
- Create a pull request on the module's project (target the patched branch)
- Wait for one of the core developers either to include your change in the codebase, or to comment on possible improvements you should make to your code.

Please respect the [coding standards][coding-standards]

**TIPS** : To ease your development phase, you can modify the module directly on the shop sources and then copy modifications to your fork.


### Running PHPStan locally

In case you have static analysis error returned by PHPStan it may be easier to fix it locally and to be able to check if the PHPStan rules are satisfied.
The module needs the PrestaShop core code as a reference since it uses its classes, so you have two possibilities to run phpstan:
- checkout this module inside your shop's `modules` folder, then phpstan can find the root folder relatively
- specify some shop's path as the root folder so phpstan knows where to look for the core classes using the `_PS_ROOT_DIR_` env variable

```shell
# Module installed in a shop (in modules folder)
$ ./vendor/bin/phpstan analyze -c tests/phpstan/phpstan-9.0.x.neon
# Module in an independent folder
$ _PS_ROOT_DIR_=/path/to/shop ./vendor/bin/phpstan analyze -c tests/phpstan/phpstan-9.0.x.neon
```

## License

This module is released under the [Academic Free License 3.0][AFL-3.0] 

[report-issue]: https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/ps_mbo/issues/new
[prestashop]: https://www.prestashop.com/
[ps_accounts]: https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/ps_accounts
[contribution-guidelines]: https://devdocs.prestashop.com/1.7/contribute/contribution-guidelines/project-modules/
[mbo-api-and-vue]: https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/mbo.prestashop.com
[coding-standards]: https://devdocs.prestashop.com/1.7/development/coding-standards/
[AFL-3.0]: https://opensource.org/licenses/AFL-3.0
[translations-docs]: docs/translations.md
[tools-update-infos]: docs/tools-update-infos.md
